Dietrich Neuman
2950 Southeast Yamhill Street
Portland, Oregon 97214
Phone: (206) 930-7266
Email: DietrichNeuman@gmail.com


STRENGTHS 
I am a full-stack software developer with extensive experience developing Window applications, from the UI layer (C# .NET, VB, C++, JavaScript, others) to the back end (SQL Server and other SQL databases), at all stages of the software development life cycle. With my broad background documenting, testing, maintaining, and supporting software as well, I excel in environments where I can “wear many hats”. Whether I’m working from a formal specification or an ad-hoc user request, I have always aimed to make software easier and more powerful for the user.
SOFTWARE EXPERIENCE
Languages: C#, C++, Visual C++ .NET, Managed C++, C, Objective C, Pascal, Visual Basic, VBA, Revelation BASIC+, SQL, T-SQL, JavaScript, Java, Perl, NT Batch, Korn shell, VAX Macro, VMS DCL, FORTRAN
Operating Systems: Windows (10, 7, XP, 2000, NT, 98 & 95); HPUX, Solaris, SunOS, AIX, VMS, MS-DOS
Networks: TCP-IP, Serial Port, Ethernet, DECNET, Novell, QNX
Database Systems: MS SQL Server, MS Access, ODBC, ORACLE, Revelation, RDM, DBase III
HARDWARE EXPERIENCE 
PC, HP 9000, Sparc, IBM RS-6000, VAX, Alpha AXP, IBM PC, Macintosh,  PDP-11, Sun workstation
EDUCATION 
BS in Computer and Information Science, minors in Mathematics and English, University of Oregon, 1986

WORK HISTORY 
CGI Montreal, Quebec (remote from Portland, Oregon) July 2021-present
Senior Consultant (software development engineer)
Designed, implemented, and maintained Winforms C# .NET applications with SQL Server back-ends for a clinical research laboratory, which used reusable code libraries I had written as a Nexelis employee. (Windows 10, C#, .NET 4.8, SQL, T-SQL, MS SQL Server 2019, Git)
Reworked in-house applications and software libraries I had written at Nexelis, replacing their database back-end (Advanced Revelation) with a SQL Server back-end, and adapting them to a new laboratory and IT environment.(Windows 10, C#, .NET 4.8, SQL, T-SQL, MS SQL Server 2019, Revelation, Perforce, Git)  
Maintained in-house applications I had written as a Nexelis employee. (Windows 10, C#, .NET 4.8, SQL, T-SQL, Visual Basic for Applications, MS SQL Server 2005/2014, Revelation, Crystal Reports for .NET, Perforce)
As part of decommissioning of the Nexelis Seattle lab, migrated data, software, and processes to a recently created laboratory and IT environment, while assisting in the initial setup of the environment. (Windows 10, C#, .NET 4.8, SQL, T-SQL, MS SQL Server 2019, Revelation, Perforce, Git)

Nexelis Seattle, Washington September 2005-July 2021
Senior Software Engineer
Designed and implemented Winforms C# .NET in-house applications with SQL Server back-ends for a clinical research laboratory, for purposes that included clinical study setup, clinical data extraction, project management, financial projection, system access privilege management, logging usage of applications by users, and more. Developed reusable code libraries for these applications, which provided the following features:
•	Forms.NET user interface with data binding
•	Multi-level data security based on Windows Login credentials
•	Paginated images of forms and DataGridView objects for printing
•	DataGridView object data exportable to XML Excel spreadsheet documents
(Windows XP/7/10, C#, .NET 2.0/3.5/4.0/4., SQL, T-SQL, Visual Basic for Applications, MS SQL Server 2005/2014, Revelation, COM/OLE, Crystal Reports for .NET, Perforce)  
Designed, implemented, and administered SQL Server databases used by the in-house applications I developed, with C# assemblies, triggers, and other advanced features. (MS SQL Server 2005/2014)
Developed a 21 CFR Part 11-compliant database client application in C#/.NET 2.0, and a SQL Server 2005 database, to monitor refrigeration unit temperatures and present aggregated data, for regular review and auditing, in Forms.NET forms and SQL Server Reporting Services reports. (Windows XP/7/10, C#, .NET 2.0, MS SQL Server 2005, SQL Server Reporting Services, Perforce)  
Designed and implemented a Mirror Database, a dynamically maintained read-only database that mirrors the data in the tables in the company’s laboratory information system (LIS), generating TSQL scripts that convert the table records from Revelation format to SQL Server. (Windows XP/7/10, C#, .NET, TSQL, MS SQL Server 2005/2014, Revelation, Revelation BASIC+)
Designed and implemented an Audit Logging system, to capture each data change in SQL Server tables and log it in another SQL Server table, at either the .NET application end or the SQL Server end (TSQL Trigger code). (Windows XP/7/10, C#, .NET, TSQL, MS SQL Server)
Wrote Javascript code to generate dynamic HTML in the company’s website. (Javascript, DHTML)
Created a utility in Visual Basic Script to generate and print bar-code labels from data read from text files. (Visual Basic Script 6.0)
Maintained code of a smartphone application for both the Android and iPhone platforms. (Windows 7, Java, Objective C)
Created the company’s first software development environment by acquiring and configuring Visual Studio 2005, SQL Server 2005, and Perforce.
Wrote 21 CFR Part 11-compliant validation documentation for a laboratory information system, and for several laboratory instrument data interfaces. (Microsoft Word, Microsoft Visio)

Microsoft Corporation Redmond, Washington June 2005-August 2005
Programmer-Writer
Wrote and edited Microsoft ADO.NET documentation, which is published in application help files and MSDN. Maintained OLE DB and ODBC documentation. Corrected and clarified documentation in response to documentation change requests. Resolved documentation issues by creating test applications and communicating with developers. (Windows XP, C#, C++ .NET, Visual Basic .NET 2.0 Framework, ADO.NET, OLE DB, SQL Server 2005, XML, DocStudio, Product Studio)  
Wrote and maintained sample applications used in published ADO.NET documentation, in C#, C++ .NET, and Visual Basic .NET, using SQL Server 2005. (Windows XP, C#, C++ .NET, Visual Basic .NET 2.0 Framework, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2005, Source Depot)  

Microsoft Corporation Redmond, Washington February 2004-February 2005
Software Development Engineer in Test
Designed and wrote a QA tool to visually represent trends in automated test results, based on data loaded from various XML/Web data sources. Wrote first version as a Perl script that generates HTML web pages, later adding interactive capabilities with Javascript. Rewrote the tool as a C# .NET Framework solution, and integrated it with other .NET components used in the development of Microsoft’s Visual Studio .NET product. Using the tool, uncovered several previously unnoticed problems in both software and testing platforms. (Windows XP, C#, .NET Framework, XML, Perl, DHTML, JavaScript)
Developed other QA tools as well in C#, Perl, and NT Batch script, resulting in considerable streamlining of the test failure analysis process. (Windows XP, C#, .NET Framework, XML, Perl)
Monitored automated test runs of Phoenix, a platform for compiler design and analysis. Reproduced, simplified, and diagnosed test failures, then wrote them up as bug reports. (Windows XP, Windows 2003 Server, Visual C++ .NET, Managed C++, C#, MSIL, Perl, NT batch script, Product Studio, WinDbg, Source Depot)

Franklin Revere Seattle, Washington, April-October 2003 
Software Development Engineer
Developed server software in Perl and C++ for internet-based consumer financial service. (Windows 2000 & 98, Perl, Visual C++, ATL, cURL, OpenSSL)

Dietrich Neuman Software Services Portland, Oregon, January 2002-August 2003 
Freelance Software Developer and Consultant
Designed and developed professional websites for clients, with CGI scripting in Perl, interaction with third-party database hosts. (Windows XP &98,  Dreamweaver 4.0, Javascript, Perl, Paint Shop Pro 7.0, PhotoFinish, HTML)
Designed and developed inventory tracking systems for art and antique dealers: MS Access databases integrated with a web-based catalog system and Excel. (Windows XP &98,  MS Access 2000, Visual Basic 6.0, SQL, Perl, MS Excel, Dreamweaver 4.0) 

Professional Data Exchange, Inc. (ProDX)	Portland, Oregon, February-September 2001
Software Development Engineer 
Developed an Internet client application that synchronizes data between web server and Personal Information Manager (PIM) applications such as Microsoft Outlook.  Wrote reusable Utilities DLL as well.  (NT, Visual C++, MFC, WinInet, Puma Intellisync SDK)
As the team's senior C++/MFC engineer, provided technical advice and guidance to teammates on a daily basis. (NT, Visual C++, MFC)

Harland Financial Solutions (formerly Concentrex)	Portland, Oregon, 1999-2000
E-Commerce Software Engineer
Developed and maintained the following Internet banking software, at up to four concurrent release levels:
•	GUI application for remote administration of the financial transaction server
•	COM/DCOM client and server middleware components, to perform the app's financial and database transactions and handle requests from web server
•	"Pluggable" DLL components for the app; architected the SDK library for development of the DLL's
(NT, Visual C++, MFC, STL, COM, DCOM, SQL Server)

Mentor Graphics	 Wilsonville, Oregon, 1998-1999
Software Engineer 
Developed QA software for Falcon Framework, a software library used by commercial circuit board design and verification applications on several UNIX platforms and Windows NT. Ported QA suites from UNIX to NT. Cleaned up earlier porting work to make QA suites portable, automatic, and able to be run predictably and easily. Systematized and documented building and testing procedures.  (NT, HPUX, Solaris, SunOs, NuTCracker, C++, Korn shell, TET, gmake, CVS, HTML)
Corrected software defects on NT and UNIX platforms.  Maintained code revision streams in CVS, branching and merging changes by off-site developers after deducing their baseline revision level. (CVS) 

USNR	 Woodland, Washington, 1995-1998
Software Engineer 
Primary engineer for a Windows NT-based, networked table editing system.  Designed and wrote first version entirely, then carried development through to the first several customer releases.  It featured: 
•	Multi-threaded network client layer, to send and receive tables (structure and data) originating on various Ethernet-linked hardware systems, using TCP-IP sockets and an in-house client-server protocol 
•	Windows-standard user interface, with extension DLL libraries to represent table data graphically
•	Data storage in SQL database tables, via ODBC interface
•	An installation package I developed with InstallShield 
(Windows NT, Visual C++ 4.0 with MFC, ODBC, Objective Grid, InstallShield)
Designed and wrote multi-threaded utility on VAX ELN to maintain persistent socket connections and establish client-server relationships between network nodes.  Using that utility, wrote a server to exchange tables between the aforementioned table editor and a 10-year-old legacy system on VAX ELN.  Created several other VAX ELN-based servers used by other NT-based client applications.  (VAX ELN, Pascal)

Magellan Communications   Sunnyvale, California, 1994
Quality Assurance Engineer, Software Engineer 
Created a system of formal quality assurance for a phone mail hardware/software system.  This included a 170-page test plan covering functional specification compliance, and several portable C programs to test low-level functions and simulate normal usage of the system.  (QNX, PDP-11, C)
Maintained and debugged source code, and integrated several engineers' code changes into an RCS source code control system.  Maintained Makefiles. (QNX, C, RCS, make)

National Information Systems, Inc.   San Jose, California, 1991-1993
Database Software Engineer, Application Programmer/Analyst
Designed and implemented a client-server interface for RDM, a multi-platform relational database and application development system with over 1000 installations.  This interface enables RDM to access remote RDM and ORACLE database tables over DECNET and other networks.  (VMS, C, Embedded SQL, ORACLE, DECNET, VMS RTL and System Services, p2c)
Ported RDM from VAX VMS to Alpha AXP OpenVMS.  (C, Pascal, VMS System Services)
Performed extensive debugging of RDM, involving every level of development from assembler code to customers' developed applications.  Responsible for all maintenance development of RDM under VMS.  (VMS, MS-DOS, UNIX, C, Pascal, VAX Macro, VMS System Services, VMS Debugger, CodeView)
Developed new features, enhancements, and innovations to RDM, including screen refresh optimization, control-C trapping, and multi-user record access. (C, Pascal, VMS System Services, VMS RMS)
Created and maintained RCS-based source control system in VAX DCL for RDM. (VMS, RCS, DCL)
Lead customer support engineer for ProRDM, a high-level language interface for RDM.   Performed telephone, dial-up, written, and on-site support services.  (VMS, RDM, MS-DOS, Novell)

Interactive Technology, Inc.   Beaverton, Oregon, 1986-1991
Database Software Engineer, Technical Writer
Maintained, debugged, and wrote enhancements to RDM, as at NIS.  Quality Assurance Manager and Release Engineer for three major releases of RDM, and lead customer support engineer for ProRDM.  (VMS, MS-DOS, UNIX, RSX, TSX, RSTS, Pascal, C, VAX Macro, DEC Test Manager)
Designed and implemented enhanced B*tree indexing system for RDM.  (Pascal, VMS RMS) 
Primary author of Skylight Guide to Application Programming, a guide to a commercial API toolkit for developing object-oriented graphical user interface (GUI) applications.  Editor and co-author of three other volumes of Skylight documentation totaling over 450 pages.  (C)

